---
layout: post
title: "OS X Yosemite"
date: 2014-11-09 11:15:00
categories: general
---
So I was pretty excited about OS X Yosemite. Honestly just for the black menubar. So when it was announced I started wondering how the heck developers are going to support it. 

The first thing I found was this line: 

{% highlight Objective-C %}
[[NSUserDefaults standardUserDefaults] stringForKey:@"AppleInterfaceStyle"]
{% endhighlight %}

Which would return the string "dark" if the theme was used, "" otherwise. 

This worked fine and all (I guess.) it was tedious having to have a white and a black version of every menubar icon. I had those from before, where I manually set the selected and unselected icons. (Again, I had no idea what I was doing.) So it wasn't all that bad. However there was a major problem using this method. 

It would only run at startup, setting the icons for each theme, but if the user changed their theme after that, the icons wouldn't change. I tried looking for some kind of message that gets sent whenever the theme changed, but found nothing.

In the end I finally found a solution. You set your menubar icons load them ect as normally. But you only really need one icon, you don't need to make a black and a white version. 

{% highlight Objective-C %}
self.clear_day_black = [[NSImage alloc]initWithContentsOfFile:[bundle pathForResource:@"clear-day-black@2x" ofType:@"png"]];

[self.clear_day_black setTemplate:YES];
{% endhighlight %}

By setting it as a template, OS X will automatically make the icon white or black depending on selection/theme. I guess this is why they only allow black and white menubar icons. 
